Rewrite configuration docs for MPIPreferences (#566)
JuliaParallel/MPI.jl: docs/src/configuration.md

$ mpiexecjl --project=/path/to/project -n 20 julia script.jl
```

## Using MPIPreferences.jl

MPI.jl uses [Preferences.jl](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Preferences.jl) to
allow the user to choose which MPI implementation to use for a project. This provides
a single source of truth that can be used for `JLL` (Julia packages providing C libraries)
that link against MPI, as well as localizing the choice of MPI implementation to a project.

Users can use the provided [`use_system_binary`](@ref) or [`use_jll_binary`](@ref)
to switch MPI implementations.

### Migration from MPI.jl `v0.19`

Prior to MPI.jl `v0.20` environment variables were used to configure which MPI
library to use. These have now been removed.

- `JULIA_MPI_BINARY`
- `JULIA_MPIEXEC`
- `JULIA_MPI_INCLUDE_PATH`
- `JULIA_MPI_CFLAGS`
- `JULIA_MPICC`

### Using a system-provided MPI

#### Requirements

MPI.jl requires a shared library installation of a C MPI library, supporting the MPI 3.0
standard or later.

### Configuration

To use the the system MPI, run `MPI.use_system_binary()`.
This will attempt find and identify any available MPI implementation, and create

> a file called `LocalPreferences.toml` adjacent to the current `Project.toml`.

Author: You are always using a project :), but yes it would be created in `.julia/environment/v1.7` if you are using the default project.

> a file called `LocalPreferences.toml` adjacent to the current `Project.toml`.

Reviewer: I know, but it took me a while to understand this fact. I just thought it might help users to avoid the "huh, where is the newly created preferences file?" moment. But it is also sort of redundant to the basic Julia docs, so feel free to ignore this suggestion if you do not like it.

```sh
julia --project -e 'using MPI; MPI.use_system_binary()'
```
!!! note
    You can copy `LocalPreferences.toml` to a different project, but you must list
    `MPIPreferences` in the Project.toml either in `[deps]` or `[extras]` for the settings

>     to take effect. Due to a bug in Julia (until `v1.6.5` and `v1.7.1`), getting preferences

Reviewer: Is `MPIPreferences` added automatically if `use_system_binary()` is called? If yes, this should be stated somewhere explicitly. Otherwise, it should me mentioned somewhere that this needs to be added manually.

It should also be stated somewhere that when switching back to the JLL binaries are used again, one can also safely delete the `LocalPreferences.jl` file. 

Also, be explicit about where it should be added: Pick either `[deps]` or `[extras]` and remove the burden of choice from the user. If it's all the same, I'd suggest `[deps]` since it's what is more well-known; one should only propagate adding it to `[extras]` if this is conceptually the "better" place.

Author: Yes MPIPreferences is added automatically to the `[extras]` section. Entries in `[deps]` need corresponding entries in `[compat]` (if one wants to register the package) and makes MPIPreferences implicitly loadable, so from my perspective `[extra]` is preferred.

Reviewer: OK, in that case I suggest to rewrite this note to include this information, e.g.,
```suggestion
    You can copy `LocalPreferences.toml` to a different project, but you must list
    `MPIPreferences` in the Project.toml either in the `[extra]` section for the settings
    to take effect. Due to a bug in Julia (until `v1.6.5` and `v1.7.1`), getting preferences
```
but also state somewhere that `MPIPreferences` are automatically added to the Project.toml when `use_system_binary()` is called.

    gtom transitive dependencies is broken (https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Preferences.jl/issues/24).

>     To fix this either update your version of Julia, or add `MPIPreferences` as a direct dependency to your project.

Reviewer: I don't understand the logic here. So do I always have to add `MPIPreferences` or only sometimes? This somehow does not align with the first part of the note.

Author: Yeah this is a wart... On older Julia versions the extra section didn't work properly (Need to double check this as well)

> The MPI standard doesn't specify the exact application binary interface (ABI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Is this sentence still useful/necessary here?

Author: I think so, at least to explain the word ABI

Reviewer: I would still remove it here then and put it next to where ABI is really used (see other comment).

> 
> The following implementations should work:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following MPI implementations should work out-of-the-box with MPI.jl:
```

$ mpiexecjl --project=/path/to/project -n 20 julia script.jl
```

## Using MPIPreferences.jl

MPI.jl uses [Preferences.jl](https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Preferences.jl) to
allow the user to choose which MPI implementation to use for a project. This provides
a single source of truth that can be used for JLL packages (Julia packages providing C libraries)
that link against MPI, localizes the choice of MPI implementation to a project.

Users can use the provided [`use_system_binary`](@ref) or [`use_jll_binary`](@ref)
to switch MPI implementations. By default, the JLL-provided binaries are used.

### Migration from MPI.jl `v0.19`

Prior to MPI.jl `v0.20` environment variables were used to configure which MPI
library to use. These have now been removed and have no effect anymore:

- `JULIA_MPI_BINARY`
- `JULIA_MPIEXEC`
- `JULIA_MPI_INCLUDE_PATH`
- `JULIA_MPI_CFLAGS`
- `JULIA_MPICC`

### Using a system-provided MPI backend

#### Requirements

MPI.jl requires a shared library installation of a C MPI library, supporting the MPI 3.0
standard or later.

### Configuration

> To use the system MPI library, run `MPI.use_system_binary()`.

Reviewer 2: ```julia
julia> MPI.use_system_binary()
ERROR: UndefVarError: use_system_binary not defined
Stacktrace:
 [1] getproperty(x::Module, f::Symbol)
   @ Base ./Base.jl:35
 [2] top-level scope
   @ REPL[4]:1
```
I guess you either want to import the function from `MPIPreferences` (and maybe do `const use_system_binary = MPIPreferences.use_system_binary` to enable REPL completion), or mention here `MPIPreferences.use_system_binary`

Reviewer 3: ☝️ good point.

Reviewer 2: Uh, I missed in this PR you're importing the names from MPIPreferences, but I think it'd still be good to make REPL completion work, it's a small quality-of-life improvement

This will attempt find and identify any available MPI implementation, and create
a file called `LocalPreferences.toml` adjacent to the current `Project.toml`.

```sh
julia --project -e 'using MPI; MPI.use_system_binary()'
```
!!! note
    You can copy `LocalPreferences.toml` to a different project, but you must list
    `MPIPreferences` in the Project.toml either in `[deps]` or `[extras]` for the settings
    to take effect. Due to a bug in Julia (until `v1.6.5` and `v1.7.1`), getting preferences

>     gtom transitive dependencies is broken (https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Preferences.jl/issues/24).

Reviewer 2: I think "gtom" should be "from"?
```suggestion
    from transitive dependencies is broken (https://github.com/JuliaPackaging/Preferences.jl/issues/24).
```

    To fix this either update your version of Julia, or add `MPIPreferences` as a direct dependency to your project.

The MPI standard doesn't specify the exact application binary interface (ABI).

The following MPI implementations should work out-of-the-box with MPI.jl:

- [Open MPI](http://www.open-mpi.org/)
- [MPICH](http://www.mpich.org/) (v3.1 or later)
- [Intel MPI](https://software.intel.com/en-us/mpi-library)
- [Microsoft MPI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/message-passing-interface/microsoft-mpi)
- [IBM Spectrum MPI](https://www.ibm.com/us-en/marketplace/spectrum-mpi)

#### Advanced options

```@doc
MPI.use_system_binary
```

> You can use the argument `mpiexec` to provide the the name (or full path) of the MPI launcher executable. The default is

Reviewer 3: Twice `the` should be removed

`to provide the the name`

> You can use the argument `mpiexec` to provide the the name (or full path) of the MPI launcher executable. The default is

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the argument `mpiexec` to provide the name (or full path) of the MPI launcher executable. The default is
```

`mpiexec`, but some clusters require using the scheduler launcher interface (e.g. `srun`
on Slurm, `aprun` on PBS). If the MPI library has an uncommon name you can provide it in `library_names`.

> In case ABI detection fails you can provide a manual choice,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MPI standard does not specify the exact application binary interface (ABI).
In case ABI detection fails you can provide a manual choice,
```

- [Microsoft MPI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/message-passing-interface/microsoft-mpi)
- [IBM Spectrum MPI](https://www.ibm.com/us-en/marketplace/spectrum-mpi)

#### Advanced options

```@doc
MPI.use_system_binary
```
You can use the argument `mpiexec` to provide the the name (or full path) of the MPI launcher executable. The default is
`mpiexec`, but some clusters require using the scheduler launcher interface (e.g. `srun`
on Slurm, `aprun` on PBS). If the MPI library has an uncommon name you can provide it in `library_names`.

> In case ABI detection fails you can provide a manual choice,
> but also open an issue so that the auto-detection can be improved. `export_prefs=true` can be used to copy the preferences into the `Project.toml` instead of creating a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case ABI detection fails you can provide a manual choice (either `MPICH` or `OpenMPI` or `MicrosoftMPI`),
but also open an issue such that the automatic detection can be improved.
`export_prefs=true` can be used to copy the preferences into the `Project.toml` instead of creating a
```
I think these three are the only ones supported, right? Further, why `export_prefs` and not `export_preferences`? Ok, that's probably a personal style question, I try to avoid abbreviations where not necessary. Finally, I think we should state a reason why anyone would want to use `export_prefs`, i.e., what are the possible advantages.

Author: You are missing MPI trampoline.

`export_prefs` is inherited from Preferences.jl we just pass through the keyword argument.

Export preferences puts it into the Project.toml so it is one less file to copy around. Other than that there shouldn't be a difference

Reviewer: I have updated the suggestion

`LocalPreferences.toml` file to hold them.

#### Notes to HPC cluster adminstators

> Preferences are merged across the Julia load path, so it is feasible to provide a module file that appends a path to
> `JULIA_LOAD_PATH` variable that contains system wide preferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Preferences are merged across the Julia load path, such that it is feasible to provide a module file that appends a path to
`JULIA_LOAD_PATH` variable that contains system-wide preferences.
```

> As an example you can use [`MPI.use_system_binary(;export_prefs)`](@ref) to create a file `Project.toml` containing:

Reviewer: Why the `export_prefs`? Why can't I just copy the `LocalPreferences.toml` to the central location? If I have to use `export_prefs=true`, it should be stated explicitly as such.

Author: I only wanted to show one file instead of two, but you are probably right. I personally prefer the LocalPreferences.toml

Reviewer: If `LocalPreferences.toml` works (and can also put on the load path), and if everything else is all the same, I'd probably just describe this approach. Users familiar with Preferences.jl will know that the other option exists, while users who don't are not overwhelmed by more choices.

Another advantage of `LocalPreferences.jl` is that it is imho *much* less ugly if you have a local project in a git repo, since you can just add `LocalPreferences.jl` to `.gitignore`, while that is not possible for `Project.toml`.

Thus I suggest to reformulate this as more "do this" instead of "this is one way of doing it" :-)

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```toml
~~~

[extras]
MPIPreferences = "3da0fdf6-3ccc-4f1b-acd9-58baa6c99267"

[preferences.MPIPreferences]
abi = "OpenMPI"
binary = "system"
libmpi = "/software/mpi/lib/libmpi.so"
mpiexec = "/software/mpi/bin/mpiexec"
```

> copying that to a central location like: `/software/mpi/julia` and setting `JULIA_LOAD_PATH=":/software/mpi/julia"` (note the `:` before the path) in the coressponding module file (preferrably the MPI installation, or the Julia module)
> , will cause the user to default to your cluster MPI installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copying this `Project.toml` to a central location such as `/software/mpi/julia` and setting the environment
variable `JULIA_LOAD_PATH=":/software/mpi/julia"` (note the `:` before the path) in the corresponding
module file (preferably the module file for the MPI installation or for Julia),
will cause the user to default to your cluster MPI installation.
```

> The user can still create a differing per Julia project that
> will take precedent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can still provide differing MPI configurations for each Julia project that
will take precedent by modifying the local `Project.toml` or by providing a `LocalPreferences.toml` file.
```
For clarity?

### Using a different JLL provided MPI library

> The following JLL implementations are provided:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following MPI implementations are provided as JLL packages and automatically obtained when installing MPI.jl:
```

- `MicrosoftMPI_jll`: Default for Windows

> - `MPICH_jll`: Default on all Unix systems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MPICH_jll`: Default for all Unix-like systems
```

- [`MPItrampoline_jll`](https://github.com/eschnett/MPItrampoline): Binaries built against MPItrampoline can be efficiently retargetted to a system MPI implementation.
- `OpenMPI_jll`

```@doc
MPI.use_jll_binary
```

## Environment variables for the testsuite
The test suite can also be modified by the following variables:

- `JULIA_MPI_TEST_NPROCS`: How many ranks to use within the tests
- `JULIA_MPI_TEST_ARRAYTYPE`: Set to `CuArray` to test the CUDA-aware interface with
  [`CUDA.CuArray](https://github.com/JuliaGPU/CUDA.jl) buffers.
- `JULIA_MPI_TEST_BINARY`: Check that the correct MPI binary is used for the tests

> - `JULIA_MPI_TEST_ABI`: Check that the correct MPI ABI is used for the tests

Reviewer: From the docs it is unclear what I need to do with these variables. Set them to `true`?

Author: Need to be set to what you expect the variable to be.

E.g. `JULIA_MPI_TEST_BINARY=binary` and the test will fail if you are using a jll

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `JULIA_MPI_TEST_BINARY`: Check that the specified MPI binary is used for the tests
- `JULIA_MPI_TEST_ABI`: Check that the specified MPI ABI is used for the tests
```
Maybe like this?
